improve basic model documentation (#9509)
astropy/astropy: docs/modeling/models.rst

    array([1.        , 1.76499381])

The result is an array with one result per model in the set.  It is also
possible to broadcast a single input value to all models in the set::

    >>> g(0)  # doctest: +FLOAT_CMP
    array([1., 2.])

> Or when the input is arrays::

Reviewer: "Or when the input is an array" might be better here.

    >>> x = np.array([[0, 0, 0], [0.1, 0.1, 0.1]])
    >>> print(x)
    [[0.  0.  0. ]
     [0.1 0.1 0.1]]
    >>> g(x)
    array([[1.        , 1.        , 1.        ],
           [1.76499381, 1.76499381, 1.76499381]])

Internally the shape of the inputs, outputs and parameter values is controlled
by an attribute - ``model_set_axis``. In the above case ``model_set_axis=0``::

    >>> g.model_set_axis
    0

This indicates that elements along the 0-th axis will be passed as inputs to inidvidual models.
Sometimes it may be useful to pass inputs along a different axis, for example the 1st axis::

    >>> x = np.array([[0, 0, 0], [0.1, 0.1, 0.1]]).T
    >>> print(x)
    [[0.  0.1]
     [0.  0.1]
     [0.  0.1]]

Because there are two models in this model set and we are passing three inputs

> along the 0th axis evaluation will fail::

Reviewer: "...along the 0th axis, evaluation will fail"

    >>> g(x)
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    ValueError: Input argument 'x' does not have the correct dimensions in
    model_set_axis=0 for a model set with n_models=2.

There are two ways to get around this. ``model_set_axis`` can be passed in
when the model is evaluated::

    >>> g(x, model_set_axis=1)
    array([[1.        , 1.76499381],
           [1.        , 1.76499381],
           [1.        , 1.76499381]])

Or when the model is initialized::

    >>> g = models.Gaussian1D(amplitude=[[1, 2]], mean=[[0, 0]],
    ...                       stddev=[[0.1, 0.2]], n_models=2,
    ...                       model_set_axis=1)
    >>> g(x)
    array([[1.        , 1.76499381],
           [1.        , 1.76499381],
           [1.        , 1.76499381]])

> Note that in the latter case the shape fo the individual parameters has changed to 2D.

Reviewer: Maybe a comment here on why, or how this affects things.  Does it matter?

    array([[[1.        , 0.60653066],
            [2.        , 1.76499381]],
    <BLANKLINE>
           [[1.        , 0.60653066],
            [2.        , 1.76499381]],
    <BLANKLINE>
           [[1.        , 0.60653066],
            [2.        , 1.76499381]]])
    >>> result[: , 0]
    array([[1.        , 0.60653066],
           [1.        , 0.60653066],
           [1.        , 0.60653066]])
    >>> result[: , 1]
    array([[2.        , 1.76499381],
           [2.        , 1.76499381],
           [2.        , 1.76499381]])

Currently model sets are most useful for fitting a set of **linear** models
(:ref:`example <example-fitting-model-sets>`)
allowing a large number of models of the same type to be fitted simultaneously
(and independently from each other) to some large set of inputs, for example,
fitting a polynomial to the time response of each pixel in a data cube.
This can greatly speed up the fitting process. The speed-up is due to solving
the set of equations to find the exact solution. Non-linear models, which require
an iterative algorithm, cannot be currently fit using model sets. Model sets of non-linear
models can only be evaluated.

.. _modeling-asdf:

> Model Serialization

Reviewer: "Serialization" is a very accurate term, but perhaps "Saving Models" or "Writing Models to Disk" might be a more accessible way to convey this to people who don't use the term "serialize" every day, but still want to write their models out (and read them back in).

===================

Many models are serializable using the `ASDF`_
format. This can be useful in many contexts, one of which is the implementation of a
`Generalized World Coordinate System (GWCS)`_.
Serializing a model to disk is as simple as assigning the object to ``AsdfFile.tree``::

> .. doctest-skip::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. doctest-require:: asdf
```

    >>> from asdf import AsdfFile
    >>> from astropy.modeling import models
    >>> rotation = models.Rotation2D(angle=23.7)
    >>> f = AsdfFile()
    >>> f.tree['model'] = rotation
    >>> f.write_to('rotation.asdf')

To read the file and create the model::

> .. doctest-skip::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. doctest-require:: asdf
```

    array([1.        , 1.76499381])

The result is an array with one result per model in the set.  It is also
possible to broadcast a single input value to all models in the set::

    >>> g(0)  # doctest: +FLOAT_CMP
    array([1., 2.])

Or when the input is an array::

    >>> x = np.array([[0, 0, 0], [0.1, 0.1, 0.1]])
    >>> print(x)
    [[0.  0.  0. ]
     [0.1 0.1 0.1]]
    >>> g(x)
    array([[1.        , 1.        , 1.        ],
           [1.76499381, 1.76499381, 1.76499381]])

> Internally the shape of the inputs, outputs and parameter values is controlled

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Internally the shape of the inputs, outputs, and parameter values is controlled
```

Sometimes it may be useful to pass inputs along a different axis, for example the 1st axis::

    >>> x = np.array([[0, 0, 0], [0.1, 0.1, 0.1]]).T
    >>> print(x)
    [[0.  0.1]
     [0.  0.1]
     [0.  0.1]]

Because there are two models in this model set and we are passing three inputs
along the 0th axis, evaluation will fail::

    >>> g(x)
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    ValueError: Input argument 'x' does not have the correct dimensions in
    model_set_axis=0 for a model set with n_models=2.

There are two ways to get around this. ``model_set_axis`` can be passed in
when the model is evaluated::

    >>> g(x, model_set_axis=1)
    array([[1.        , 1.76499381],
           [1.        , 1.76499381],
           [1.        , 1.76499381]])

Or when the model is initialized::

    >>> g = models.Gaussian1D(amplitude=[[1, 2]], mean=[[0, 0]],
    ...                       stddev=[[0.1, 0.2]], n_models=2,
    ...                       model_set_axis=1)
    >>> g(x)
    array([[1.        , 1.76499381],
           [1.        , 1.76499381],
           [1.        , 1.76499381]])

> Note that in the latter case the shape fo the individual parameters has changed to 2D

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that in the latter case, the shape of the individual parameters has changed to 2D
```

because now the parameters are defined along the 1st axis.

The value of ``model_set_axis`` is either an integer number, representing the axis along which
the different parameter sets and inputs are defined, or a boolean of value ``False``,
in which case it indicates all model sets should use the same inputs on evaluation.

> For example the above model has a value of 1 for ``model_set_axis``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, the above model has a value of 1 for ``model_set_axis``.
```

> If ``model_set_axis=False`` is passed the 2 models will be evaluated on the same input::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If ``model_set_axis=False`` is passed the two models will be evaluated on the same input::
```

    >>> g.model_set_axis
    1
    >>> result = g(x, model_set_axis=False)
    >>> result
    array([[[1.        , 0.60653066],
            [2.        , 1.76499381]],
    <BLANKLINE>
           [[1.        , 0.60653066],
            [2.        , 1.76499381]],
    <BLANKLINE>
           [[1.        , 0.60653066],
            [2.        , 1.76499381]]])
    >>> result[: , 0]
    array([[1.        , 0.60653066],
           [1.        , 0.60653066],
           [1.        , 0.60653066]])
    >>> result[: , 1]
    array([[2.        , 1.76499381],
           [2.        , 1.76499381],
           [2.        , 1.76499381]])

Currently model sets are most useful for fitting a set of **linear** models
(:ref:`example <example-fitting-model-sets>`)
allowing a large number of models of the same type to be fitted simultaneously

> (and independently from each other) to some large set of inputs, for example,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(and independently from each other) to some large set of inputs, such as
```

fitting a polynomial to the time response of each pixel in a data cube.
This can greatly speed up the fitting process. The speed-up is due to solving

> the set of equations to find the exact solution. Non-linear models, which require

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the set of equations to find the exact solution. Nonlinear models, which require
```

> an iterative algorithm, cannot be currently fit using model sets. Model sets of non-linear

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
an iterative algorithm, cannot be currently fit using model sets. Model sets of nonlinear
```

models can only be evaluated.

.. _modeling-asdf:

> Model Serialization (Writing a model to a file)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Model Serialization (Writing a Model to a File)
```

===============================================

Many models are serializable using the `ASDF`_
format. This can be useful in many contexts, one of which is the implementation of a
`Generalized World Coordinate System (GWCS)`_.

> Serializing a model to disk is as simple as assigning the object to ``AsdfFile.tree``::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Serializing a model to disk is possible by assigning the object to ``AsdfFile.tree``::
```

> .. doctest-requires:: asdf

Reviewer 4: Somehow this text ends up visible in the HTML end product. That is not supposed to happen.

    >>> from asdf import AsdfFile
    >>> from astropy.modeling import models
    >>> rotation = models.Rotation2D(angle=23.7)
    >>> f = AsdfFile()
    >>> f.tree['model'] = rotation
    >>> f.write_to('rotation.asdf')

> To read the file and create the model::

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To read the file and create the model:
```

            [2.        , 1.76499381]],
    <BLANKLINE>
           [[1.        , 0.60653066],
            [2.        , 1.76499381]],
    <BLANKLINE>
           [[1.        , 0.60653066],
            [2.        , 1.76499381]]])
    >>> result[: , 0]
    array([[1.        , 0.60653066],
           [1.        , 0.60653066],
           [1.        , 0.60653066]])
    >>> result[: , 1]
    array([[2.        , 1.76499381],
           [2.        , 1.76499381],
           [2.        , 1.76499381]])

Currently model sets are most useful for fitting a set of **linear** models
(:ref:`example <example-fitting-model-sets>`)
allowing a large number of models of the same type to be fitted simultaneously
(and independently from each other) to some large set of inputs, for example,
fitting a polynomial to the time response of each pixel in a data cube.
This can greatly speed up the fitting process. The speed-up is due to solving
the set of equations to find the exact solution. Non-linear models, which require
an iterative algorithm, cannot be currently fit using model sets. Model sets of non-linear
models can only be evaluated.

.. _modeling-asdf:

Model Serialization
===================

> Many models are serializable using the `ASDF <https://asdf-standard.readthedocs.io/en/latest/`__

Reviewer 4: Why double underscore instead of just single underscore?

Author: Because it failed with one underscore.

Author: I should say the build failed locally. Now it's failing online (for a reason I can't determine yet) but not locally. 😕

Reviewer 4: Remember to clean your previous doc build before rebuilding locally. You might just not be seeing the error because that page is skipped.
